# Response to Blumenstock
Matt Howat

January 27

Joshuas ideas of data science can be split up into three main parts, the promise, the pitfalls, and the ways forward. One of the main aspects of data science that Joshua is excited about is the promise of cell phone data. The uses of cell phone data extend to but are not limited to aiding the people, businesses, and governments of developing countries. Public health and the idea that big data are both things that Blumenstock is very excited about moving forward. With the use of big data, there is an endless number of things that we can now track to find relationships and seek out trends in an effort to improve overall public health through the use of data. Despite this new shiny technology being made more readily available there are still drawbacks to this that may be overlooked because of the great promise that big data brings to the table. I believe that the most important topic to address is the lack of regulation that is set within the realm of data use. More classic data collection techniques such as surveys are mostly run through the government, but now with privately run companies being given access to so much data, it would be easy for them to misuse it or sell it to a party that would. I follow Nira’s thought on this the most because it both addresses the concern of privacy in data use but still emphasizes that there is too much power behind the use of data to disregard. Blumenstock mentions the idea of being a humbler data scientists. This idea is something that again shows both sides of the coin, one side is the promise that data shows within human development. Unlike most data scientists he addresses the potential problems and pitfalls of this new technique. As we move farther into the use of big data and begin to incorporate machine learning as a way to expedite the furtherment of data use we see even more and more promise with the use of data.  
