Random Forest models were used to produce a high resolution description of the distribution of the human population across the globe. This model allows for the use of many different covariates that go into its creation. The model is very flexible in allowing the use of both continuous and discrete covariates. The model is created through the use of population data and a weighting system that increases the resolution of the population data. 

While the random forest continues to grow its “forest” the stronger trees (those with the best predictions) are built off of and the algorithm can continue to improve its accuracy. The use of this ensemble method is much different from the previous ways that data was collected. Now they are able to come up with data at much faster and more inexpensive ways. This is growing in importance as we look to describe the population distribution in time of phenomenon and short term events.

The covariates that were described in this paper were individual land cover classes, water bodies, protected area presence/absence, etc.. These covariates had a large amount of data within them, most were able to have a resolution of 100m^2. This is due to satellites that are able to scan the globe up to two times a day.

The uses for the data being collected is immeasurable. With the knowledge of human population distribution at the level that Steve was able to achieve we can know much more in different situations. For example during natural disasters, disease transmission, and travel restrictions we could know where are the places that would be most impacted. 

With my country being lower middle income it is a country that is reliant on others for it to survive. Knowing the population distribution allows for outside groups to see where their aid would be the most impactful. Being able to see where the population is most concentrated the government will also be able to see where to send most of their money to help infrastructure and provide aid.
